		       Lesson 4: Searching

      The first command we will learn in this lesson is the
"search" command, "C--S".  Suppose someone has given you a draft
for corrections, and somewhere in the middle has marked a phrase
to be changed.  It's easy enough to see it on paper, because the
place is marked in red ink or the like.  But it requires extra
work to find it on the computer.

      Certainly we could scan through the file looking for the
marked place using C--V's, but it might take a while. Instead, we
can use the computer to search through the file, looking for the
proper place.

	(You might want to look back at the paper copy of this
lesson for just a little while now, since C--V's will not work
while we're in the middle of a search.)  Enter a C--V now.  Try
the search command now.  Type:

      C--S

Perfect Writer will respond to the C--S by printing "Search for
<ESC>:" in the echo line at the bottom of the screen.  Now type
in the word:

		      search

You will see it echoed at the bottom of the screen.  After you
have entered the word or string of words to search for, type the
Escape key.  This tells Perfect Writer to begin searching.

      A forward search begins at the character the cursor is on,
continues until the searched-for item is found, and when it is,
positions the cursor just after it.  So, when you hit the Escape
key, you should have seen the cursor jump to one of the
occurrences of the word "search" in this lesson.  It should still
be there now, unless you've had to type C--V's to read more. If
so, try it again.  Type:

      C--S   search  [Escape]

      Now just try typing:

      C--S  [Escape]

That is, do not type in any character string (word or words) to
be searched for; just hit the Escape key right after the C--S. 
You should notice the cursor jump to the next occurrence of the
word "search".  When you do not give the C--S command a new
character string to look for, it searches for whatever you told
it last time.

      What happens if there is no character string exactly like
the one you type for C--S?  Try it and see.  Do a search for
a misspelled word.  That is, do a search for "Control" but end it
with "el".  If there is no exact match of the word between the
cursor and the end of the text, as you see, Perfect Writer will
cause the terminal to beep and will print the phrase "Not Found"
at the right of the echo line.  The cursor will then stop at the
closest match.

      As you may have observed from the action of the search
command, it is a forward search.  In addition,  there is a
"backward" search as well.  It is used to search backwards in the
text from the current cursor position.  The command is called
"Reverse search for [ESC]", and is performed by C--R.  All
of the features of C--R are identical to C--S, except
that, since it searches through the text in reverse, it leaves
the cursor before the closest item that matches the string,
rather than after it.  Notice that the character string to be
searched for is saved and is the same one for both C--R and
C--S.  So, you may find yourself typing "C--S", a
string, and the Escape, and then, if you hear a beep, typing
"C--R Escape" because you know the string is in the text
somewhere.

      Before leaving this Lesson experiment with the search
command.  If you want to continue with the next lesson then
enter:
	C--X C--F  lesson5.mss

Otherwise exit Perfect Writer by typing:

	C--X C--C

and answer yes to the "Abandon Modified Buffers?" question.  Do
not save your modifications.

