		 LEARNING TO USE PERFECT WRITER

	You are looking at the TEACHING DISK that we've designed
to teach you how to use Perfect Writer through several self-study
lessons.  This TEACHING DISK is designed for the person who has no
previous experience with word processing.
	Perfect Writer commands are generally given by holding
the CONTROL key (sometimes labelled CTRL or CTL) or hitting the
ESCAPE key (sometimes labelled ESC or ALT).  Rather than write
out ESCAPE or CONTROL each time we want you to give a command,
we'll use the following abbreviations:

 C--<char>      means hold the CONTROL key down and type a character.
 M--<char>      means type the ESCAPE key, release it, then type the
               character. (The "M" stands for "Meta-command"; ESC is a
               substitute for the imaginary "meta-shift" key.)
Thus, C--F would be hold the control key and type F.  You will often be
asked to type characters to see how they work.

>> Now type C--V (View next screen) to move to the next screen. (go
   ahead, do it by depressing the control key and V together). From
   now on, you'll be expected to do this whenever you finish reading
   the screen.

Note that there is an overlap when going from screen to screen; this
   provides some continuity when moving through the file.

The first thing that you need to know is how to move around from place
   to place in the file.  You already know how to move forward a
   screen, with C--V.  To move backwards a screen, type C--Z.

Try typing C--Z and then C--V to move back and forth a few times.

SUMMARY
-------
The following commands are useful for viewing screenfuls:

        C--V     Move forward one screenful
        C--Z     Move backward one screenful
        C--L     'Refresh' the current screen.

Try C--L now.  (You'll notice that it centers the screen where the
   cursor currently is.)


	Perfect Writer is an easy-to-use word processor.  You
should be able to teach yourself how to use it by reading through
the following seven lessons.  The lessons are designed to be read
by you at your own pace and convenience while sitting at a
computer.  The contents of the lessons are as follows:

          Lesson 1: Getting Started
	            This lesson shows you how to type in text,		   
		    the commands used to move the cursor around         
                    and delete and insert text.

          Lesson 2: Moving Around Faster
                    This lesson introduces commands for moving
		    around the text faster.

          Lesson 3: Reading and Writing Files
                    This lesson explains the computer file system
                    and how Perfect Writer uses it to store text.
		    Commands for reading and writing files are
		    demonstrated.  At this point, the user will
		    be able to use Perfect Writer effectively for
		    simple document preparation.

          Lesson 4: Searching
                    This lesson introduces the search and
		    replace commands.

          Lesson 5: Copying and Moving Text 
		    This lesson introduces the delete and restore
		    commands.  Several examples of text movement
		    are provided.

          Lesson 6: Word Processing Commands
                    This lesson explains the command used for
                    "filling" paragraphs of text, and the commands
                    used to set parameters which control this 
                    operation.  Commands which change the case of
                    words are also explained.

          Lesson 7: Multiple Files and Dual Window Display
                    This lesson shows how to use the dual window
		    display and multiple editing buffers.

	When you are finished with this introduction to the
Teaching Disk, enter: 
			C--X  C--R 

and answer 'lesson1' when asked, "File to Read <CR>:"   This
will take you directly to Lesson 1.  If you want to exit and come
back later, then enter:
			C--X  C--C

When you wish to restart with Lesson 1, then simply enter:

			A>pw lesson1 <CR>
from CP/M.
